In January of 2020,
we started seeing news reports
about a disease outbreak in Wuhan, China.
Now at the time, it seemed localized
and was not of global concern.
But a short time later,
the numbers were going up
as the virus began to spread.
Borders were closing,
and airports were shutting down.
On January 22, the Coordinators’ Committee
received their first letter from a branch
about the coronavirus.
The letter was from the Korea branch.
Soon after that,
we wrote to all branches in and around Asia
and included guidelines on what to do
if they had an outbreak in their territory.
We had dealt with local epidemics before
but nothing like this on a worldwide scale.
It was clear that the virus
was going to affect almost every aspect
of our theocratic operations.
And during those first few months of 2020,
the organization would be faced
with a huge amount of decisions.
You have to realize that this was catching us
right in the middle of our activities.
Our schedule for the whole year
had already been planned.
We had shepherding visits to branches,
regional conventions,
even special conventions.
And now we had Gilead graduation
and Memorial coming up right in front of us.
What were we going to do?
One of the first things
the Governing Body decided
was that the Coordinators’ Committee
would become the central channel
of communication regarding COVID-19.
Meanwhile, the graduation
of the 148th class of Gilead
was in two weeks.
Should we have guests come?
Should there be a live audience?
There was not much time
to make these decisions.
However, after prayer and discussion,
the entire Governing Body decided
not to have a live audience
for the Gilead graduation that weekend.
That was unheard of!
The next thing we needed to figure out
was whether to lock down
headquarters at Bethel.
I clearly remember it was a Friday night,
March 13.
We were getting reports of COVID cases
in the congregations around Bethel.
And we also knew that the Bethelites
would be going out to their congregation
and other activities over the weekend.
If we were going to do something,
we needed to do it quickly.
We called each member of the Governing Body
and explained the situation.
And all were unanimous
that we should lock down Bethel immediately.
So within the hour, a message went
to the entire headquarters
and United States Bethel family to stay in,
and if you were out,
to return to Bethel immediately.
Sometime later,
we learned that there were
some COVID cases at Patterson.
If we had moved ahead,
potentially we could have spread COVID
through the whole Bethel family!
We really felt Jehovah’s protective hand.
The same weekend as the Gilead graduation,
the Memorial invitation campaign
was scheduled to begin.
And so branches were asking:
Is it safe to go door to door
and to distribute invitations?
What if we can’t meet at our Kingdom Halls?
As the virus had spread in many countries,
it became evident
that we needed to suspend
the public ministry.
This was a very serious decision.
But when we prayerfully analyzed
the situation,
we realized we would not be showing respect
for the sanctity of life or love of neighbor
if we continued house to house.
Our preaching work shifted to letter writing
and telephone witnessing.
And what a huge witness
has been given in this way!
It was amazing to me personally
when I saw how quickly
the brothers could adapt to using
Zoom, phone witnessing, letter writing.
And instead of it being
a huge setback for the work,
it was almost as though
the work even moved ahead.
We were also having to deal
with what to do about our Kingdom Halls
and our meetings.
Initially, some of the brothers
were thinking,
‘Maybe we could just simply watch
the prerecorded meetings
on JW Stream ®.’
Well, while that’s an excellent provision,
if we were going to do this for a long time,
it would be wonderful to use a tool
that would allow the brothers and sisters
to come together virtually,
to be able to interact and have
that “interchange of encouragement.”
We knew that a few branches
had already started using Zoom
for congregation meetings,
and we wondered, ‘Could this tool be used
for congregation meetings globally?’
So we asked those branches
for their recommendations
on how we could use this tool further.
We got their comments, we did some testing,
and then the Governing Body approved
the global use of Zoom  for meetings.
At the same time, though,
the Coordinators’ Committee urgently wanted
to help those congregations to arrange
dignified Zoom  meetings.
And so within a week,
technical and theocratic guidelines
were released to all congregations.
And shortly after that,
tens of thousands of Zoom  licenses
were purchased
and then provided to many congregations
as part of the disaster relief arrangement.
However, not all publishers
could use Zoom  because of lack of Internet.
So in the days leading up to the campaign,
the Governing Body provided direction
to all branches
on how to handle those exact situations.
They also announced
that the Memorial talk itself
would be made available on jw.org.
So one branch wrote in
and asked if they could use
television and radio broadcasting.
And we thought: ‘That’s a good idea.
Let’s try it.’
Once we saw
how well it worked in that country,
television and radio were approved
for all branches in Africa
only two days before the Memorial.
How thrilling it was
for many friends in Africa
to find out, even moments
before the broadcast began,
that they would be able
to commemorate the Memorial
simultaneously with their brothers
and sisters throughout the country!
To have the Memorial
without being able to meet together
was so different for all of us.
Can you imagine that for the 2021 Memorial
there was an all-time peak
of 21,367,603?
Clearly, we have seen Jehovah’s blessing
on these arrangements.
While all these new arrangements
were being made at a rapid pace,
the usual work
of the Coordinators’ Committee Office
didn’t stop because of the pandemic.
We still had to deal
with the king of the north
persecuting our brothers.
We still had disasters
and many other things to contend with.
In fact, we handled twice as many disasters
in the 2020 service year
in the middle of the pandemic
than we did in 2018.
On a daily basis, we saw clear evidence
that we are living in the last days.
We had to come up with guidelines
to help branches determine
what aspects of relief work
could be postponed
and at the same time ensure that urgent
or necessary work went ahead safely.
While there’s no doubt that the pandemic
complicated disaster relief efforts
considerably,
it was so faith-strengthening to see
that the Governing Body refused
to allow those complications
to prevent them from caring for our brothers.
In addition to the impact
these disasters had on our brothers,
in some countries our brothers
couldn’t even get enough food
for their daily needs.
This could have been because of
government restrictions, supply issues,
or other circumstances
that wouldn’t allow the brothers to work.
Literally, the branches had to arrange
to provide their “daily bread.”
Branches were encouraged to establish
disaster relief committees
to care for the needs on a local level.
Reminders were provided to help families
try to prepare a reserve of food,
if at all possible,
in case the situation became worse.
Of course, the virus affected
not only our meetings at the Kingdom Hall
but also our circuit assemblies,
regional conventions,
and special conventions.
So the Governing Body decided to cancel
all live regional and special conventions
for 2020.
That lead to a landmark convention program
on jw.org
that the entire brotherhood enjoyed.
That same week in March,
we approved
that a JW Broadcasting® news release
about the coronavirus outbreak
be developed.
So interviews and scripts were prepared
during that Gilead graduation weekend,
and the program was recorded and released
the following week.
The Governing Body updates
have been an important way for us to shepherd
the entire organization during the pandemic.
Well, once vaccinations
became more prevalent,
we faced another challenge.
The United States branch
was struggling to get vaccines
for those in the Bethel family
who wanted them.
So in early April 2021,
we called together a meeting.
We had all the key individuals there
from the various departments,
and everyone was given an assignment.
And within two weeks, we had enough vaccines
to vaccinate everyone
in the U.S. Bethel family
who chose to be vaccinated.
Well, about a week later,
we sent a letter to all branches,
encouraging them to investigate
the availability of vaccines
for special full-time servants.
We were especially concerned
about special full-time servants
serving in lands where the government
was not yet making vaccines available.
After that direction went out,
we had a tremendous response
from a number of branches
who were able to obtain vaccines
for special full-time servants
who wanted to receive them.
Several branches said
that it had seemed impossible
to get vaccines in their country
at that moment,
but they prayed about it,
they followed the direction,
and then either that same day
or the very next day
Jehovah opened the doors
and suddenly they had the vaccine.
All of these events occurred rapidly,
and even though it was difficult
to make so many adjustments
in such a short period of time,
we could see Jehovah’s hand
in the Governing Body’s decisions.
Television, radio, videoconferencing
have all served our brothers well,
which just goes to show
that Jehovah was guiding the Governing Body
as they made these decisions
so early in the pandemic.
You know, we’ve always appreciated
the direction we receive
from the faithful slave.
But at that unique time especially,
it was so encouraging to see Jehovah use them
to make these major decisions.
And they made many that one week in March.
Although there have been many challenges
and sad times during the pandemic,
it’s been amazing
to see many positive developments.
So many inactive ones have returned.
So many Bible studies have been started.
We saw how Jehovah guided us through
—decision by decision, step-by-step.
And seeing how Jehovah
led us through this situation
has helped me to see that regardless
of what is going to come up in the future,
Jehovah is going to do the same thing.
Like the Scriptures say, we get our plagues.
We have those times.
But overall, when you’re in Jehovah’s arms,
what’s the worry?
You could say that every one
of the Governing Body’s faith
was strengthened
as we got through this trial,
and it’s just a continuous thing
of our faith being built up.
And how Jehovah is directing us!
And he’s preparing his people
for life in that new world
—the real life that’s coming.
It’s been a real privilege
to see Jehovah’s spirit in action
during this pandemic.
It’s strengthened our faith
to see him use the Governing Body
to provide Scripturally based direction
and keep the Kingdom work going,
all the while showing respect for life.
As a result, our trust
in Jehovah’s organization
is stronger than ever before.
And building this trust now is vital
because Jehovah is preparing us
for future events,
including the great tribulation.